Update Readme help-center-content (#61)
vtexdocs/help-center-content: README.md

# help-center-content

Welcome to the [VTEX Help Center Portal](https://help.vtex.com/) content repository! Here you will find the archives for all articles included in this documentation portal. It is managed by the [Tech Writing team](https://github.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/graphs/contributors) at VTEX, so if you have any questions about the repository, do not hesitate to contact any of them.

## In this repository

You will find the following folders in this repository:

> - **.github/workflows**: store workflows needed to migrate content from Contentful to this repository.
> - **docs-utils**: store scripts used to perform adjustments to documentation imported from Contentful.
> - **docs**: stores the markdown files of all our docs. Contains subfolders with names of the three locales (PT, EN, and ES), and within each of them, the following categories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **.github/workflows**: Workflows needed to migrate content from Contentful to this repository.
- **docs-utils**: Scripts used to perform adjustments to documentation imported from Contentful.
- **docs**: Documentation files. Contains subfolders corresponding to each locale (PT, EN, and ES), and within each of them, the following categories:
```

  - **announcements**: Announcement markdown files.
  - **faq**: FAQ markdown files.

>   - **know-issues**: Know-issues markdown files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **known-issues**: Known issues markdown files.
```

  - **tracks**: Tracks markdown files.
  - **troubleshooting**: Troubleshooting markdown files.
  - **tutorials**: Tutorials markdown files.

> - **readme-images**: store images used in the Readme's document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **readme-images**: Images used in the README.md file.
```

> ## Management of Help Center Portal documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Managing Help Center documentation
```

In this document we will address the following topics related to the Help Center Portal:

> - [Publication of new articles](#publishing-a-new-article)
> - [Update navigation sidebar](#updating-navigation-sidebar)
> - [Update of published articles](#updating-a-published-article)
> - [Create a redirect](#creating-a-redirect)
> - [Settings for specific content](#settings-for-specific-content)
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Publishing new articles](#publishing-a-new-article)
- [Updating the navigation sidebar](#updating-navigation-sidebar)
- [Updating published articles](#updating-a-published-article)
- [Creating redirects](#creating-a-redirect)
- [Settings for specific content](#settings-for-specific-content)
```

### Publishing a new article

> Follow the steps below to create a new article in the Help Center Portal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps below to create a new article in the Help Center:
```

> 1. Open a branch in the [help-portal-content](https://github.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a branch in the [help-center-content](https://github.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content) repository.
```

2. Add a new file in the [desired folder](#in-this-repository), and write the content of the article according to the [Template --> TBD](https://github.com/vtexdocs/dev-portal-content/blob/main/templates/guide_template.md).

>     > ⚠️ Make sure the file name (slug) is unique and an exact copy of the article title.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > ⚠️ Make sure the file name (slug) is unique and an exact copy of the article slug.
```

3. [Add images](#adding-an-image-to-the-article) to the article, if necessary.
3. Fill in the [front matter](#filling-in-front-matter-information) of the article.
4. Submit your PR for review on GitHub.

> 5. Send the PR link in the `#helpcenter-portal-pr` Slack channel for review by another technical writer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Send the PR link in the `#helpcenter-pr` Slack channel for review by another technical writer.
```

Reviewer: are we creating a new channel? or renaming #dev-portal-pr to something like #documentation-pr? @PedroAntunesCosta

> 6. After review, register the PR link in the `Document Link` field of the JIRA task and request the translation of the content, moving the card status to `Translating`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. After review, paste the PR link in the `Document Link` field of the JIRA task and request the translation of the content, moving the card status to `Translating`.
```

> 7. Once the translations are complete, check the contents of the two files created by the localization team in the folders corresponding to each locale (EN and ES) of the repository. If the article in the PT version contains images, repeat this [procedure](#adding-an-image-to-the-article) to insert them into the EN and ES versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Once the translations are complete, check the contents of the two files created by the Localization team in the folders corresponding to each locale (EN and ES) of the repository. If the article in the PT version contains images, repeat this [procedure](#adding-an-image-to-the-article) to insert them into the EN and ES versions.
```

8. Approve the PR and apply the merge to publish the article.
9. Follow [these instructions](#updating-navigation-sidebar) to update the portal navigation sidebar, adding the link for the newly published article.

>     >ℹ️ The [help-portal-content](https://github.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content) repository just stores our documentation, it is not automatically synched to be rendered in the Help Center Portal - yet. For now, when a new content is added to it, it is just included in the desired folder. For it to appear in the Help Center Portal, our Tech Writing team leaders must run the portal's build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    >ℹ️ The [help-center-content](https://github.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content) repository only stores our documentation, it is not automatically synched to be rendered in the Help Center - yet. For now, when a new content is added to it, it is just included in the desired folder. For it to appear in the Help Center Portal, our Tech Writing team leaders must run the portal's build.
```

>     >⚠️ Note that there may be limitations on the number of PRs approved per day due to internal and external demands of the education team. This means that if you want your content to be published, you should submit your PR for review with at least 3 days in advance from the desired publication date!

Reviewer: what is the reasoning behind this guideline? (how were 3 days defined?)

>     >⚠️ Note that there may be limitations on the number of PRs approved per day due to internal and external demands of the education team. This means that if you want your content to be published, you should submit your PR for review with at least 3 days in advance from the desired publication date!

Author: @julia-rabello , the value set for dev-portal-content was 2 days. I put 3 days here so that we could define a final value.

>     >⚠️ Note that there may be limitations on the number of PRs approved per day due to internal and external demands of the education team. This means that if you want your content to be published, you should submit your PR for review with at least 3 days in advance from the desired publication date!

Author: This content will be removed.

> #### Adding an image to the article

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Adding images
```

If you need to use images to help the user understand procedures more easily, follow the steps below to insert them into an article:

> 1. Access the folder where the article is located within the repository (PT version).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Access the folder where the article is located within the repository.
```

> 2. Save the image inside this folder, naming it with the same slug as the article. For instance, if the article name is "How to create a catalog category", the image should be saved as `how-to-create-a-catalog-category_1.png`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Save the image inside this folder, naming it according to the markdown file name and slug. For instance, if the article file name and slug is "how-to-create-a-catalog-category", the image should be saved as `how-to-create-a-catalog-category_1.png`.
```

    > ℹ️ If the article has more than one image, they must be named in numerical sequence. For instance, `how-to-create-a-catalog-category_1.png`, `how-to-create-a-catalog-category_2.png`.

> 3. Open the article and add `![{{Image name}}](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/refs/heads/main/docs/pt/{{path}}/{{image-slug-name}})`, replacing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open the article and add `![{{Image name}}](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/refs/heads/main/docs/{{locale}}/{{path}}/{{image-slug-name}})`, replacing:
```

  - `{{Image name}}` by an image identification name of your choice

>   - `{{path}}` by the path where you saved the image

Author: It's not necessary. Firstly, it is necessary to add it to the PT folder, and after the translations are carried out, TW adds it to the EN and ES folders (callout at the end of the procedure).

  - `{{image-slug-name}}` by the image slug name

Example: `![Instalação B2B Suite - PT](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/refs/heads/main/docs/pt/tutorials/B2B/Overview/b2b-suite-visao-geral_1.gif)`

>     >⚠️ After localization completes the translations, you must repeat this same process in the respective article folders for the EN and ES versions., modifying the information according to the specific language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    >⚠️ After localization completes the translations, you must repeat this same process in the respective article folders for the EN and ES versions, modifying the information according to the specific language.
```

2. Add a new file in the [desired folder](#in-this-repository), and write the content of the article according to the [Template --> TBD](https://github.com/vtexdocs/dev-portal-content/blob/main/templates/guide_template.md).
    > ⚠️ Make sure the file name (slug) is unique and an exact copy of the article slug.

3. [Add images](#adding-an-image-to-the-article) to the article, if necessary.
3. Fill in the [front matter](#filling-in-front-matter-information) of the article.
4. Submit your PR for review on GitHub.
5. Send the PR link in the `#dev-portal-pr` Slack channel for review by another technical writer.
6. After review, register the PR link in the `Document Link` field of the JIRA task and request the translation of the content, moving the card status to `Translating`.
7. Once the translations are complete, check the contents of the two files created by the localization team in the folders corresponding to each locale (EN and ES) of the repository. If the article in the PT version contains images, repeat this [procedure](#adding-an-image-to-the-article) to insert them into the EN and ES versions.
8. Approve the PR and apply the merge to publish the article.

> 9. Follow the [instructions](#https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter/blob/main/README.md#navigation-sidebar) available in the [README](https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter/blob/main/README.md) file of the `help-center` repository to update the portal navigation sidebar, adding the link for the newly published article.
>     >ℹ️ The [help-center-content](https://github.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content) repository only stores our documentation, it is not automatically synched to be rendered in the Help Center - yet. For now, when a new content is added to it, it is just included in the desired folder. For it to appear in the Help Center Portal, our Tech Writing team leaders must run the portal's build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Follow the [instructions](#https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter/blob/main/README.md#navigation-sidebar) available in the [README](https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter/blob/main/README.md) file of the `help-center` repository to update the portal navigation sidebar, adding the link for the newly published article.

    >ℹ️ The [help-center-content](https://github.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content) repository only stores our documentation, it is not automatically synched to be rendered in the Help Center - yet. For now, when a new content is added to it, it is just included in the desired folder. For it to appear in the Help Center Portal, our Tech Writing team leaders must run the portal's build.
```

6. Access the article where you want to add the file and insert the link obtained in the previous step in the desired location.

![Add_link_in_article](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/refs/heads/main/readme-images/readme-download-illustration-4.png)

7. Return to the main branch by clicking **Main** in the **Branches** tab.

![Main branch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/refs/heads/main/readme-images/readme-download-illustration-5.png)

8. Submit your PR for review.

#### Filling in front matter information

The front matter is the table with metadata about the article you are creating. It contains the following fields:

- **title:** Article title. E.g. "Adding SKU specifications or fields"
- **status**: Indicates whether an article is active (`PUBLISHED`) or unavailable (`ARCHIVED`) on the Help Center Portal.
- **createdAt:** creation date (UTC) and time in this format `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}T{HH}:{MM}:{SS}.{mmm}Z`.
- **updatedAt:** update date (UTC) in this format `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}T{HH}:{MM}:{SS}.{mmm}Z`.
- **publishedAt:** most recent publication date (UTC) in this format `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}T{HH}:{MM}:{SS}.{mmm}Z`.

> - **firstPublishedAt:** first publication date (UTC) in this format `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}T{HH}:{MM}:{SS}.{mmm}Z`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **createdAt:** Creation date (UTC) and time in this format `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}T{HH}:{MM}:{SS}.{mmm}Z`.
- **updatedAt:** Update date (UTC) in this format `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}T{HH}:{MM}:{SS}.{mmm}Z`.
- **publishedAt:** Most recent publication date (UTC) in this format `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}T{HH}:{MM}:{SS}.{mmm}Z`.
- **firstPublishedAt:** First publication date (UTC) in this format `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}T{HH}:{MM}:{SS}.{mmm}Z`.
```

> - **contentType:** content type (e.g., `tutorial`, `updates`, `trackArticle`, `frequentlyAskedQuestion`, `knownIssue`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **contentType:** Content type (e.g., `tutorial`, `updates`, `trackArticle`, `frequentlyAskedQuestion`, `knownIssue`).
```

- **productTeam:** Name of the module to which the article is related.

> - **author:** Technical writer identification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **author:** Technical writer ID in Contentful.
```

- **slugEN:** Article reference slug in the English version. This field must always be filled in with the same value (slug in EN), even in PT and ES version files. This is required for proper locale switching on Help Center.

> - **locale:** Article language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **locale:** Article language (`pt`, `en`, or `es`).
```

> - **legacySlug:** Slug identification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **legacySlug:** Legacy slug in Contentful.
```

3. Go to the [branches page](https://github.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/branches), and under **Your branches** section, click on the name of the branch you created.

![Branches_page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/refs/heads/main/_1.png)

4. Locate the folder where you saved the file and click on it.

![File_folder](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/refs/heads/main/_2.png)

5. Right-click on the **Raw** option and select **Copy link address (Copiar endereço do link)**.

![Raw_link_information](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/refs/heads/main/_3.png)

> ℹ️ Address link example: `https://github.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/raw/main/docs/pt/tutorials/Payments/Payment%20Settings/Payment%20Provider%20x%20Countries%20-%20August%202024.xlsx`

6. Access the article where you want to add the file and insert the link obtained in the previous step in the desired location.

![Add_link_in_article](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/refs/heads/main/_4.png)

7. Return to the main branch by clicking **Main** in the **Branches** tab.

> ![Main branch](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content/refs/heads/main/_5.png)

Author: Yes, I will fix these links.

8. Submit your PR for review.

#### Filling in front matter information

The front-matter is the table with metadata about the article you are creating. It contains the following fields:

- **title:** article's title. E.g. "Adding SKU specifications or fields"
- **status**: Indicates whether an article is active (`PUBLISHED`) or unavailable (`ARCHIVED`) on the Help Center Portal.
- **createdAt:** creation date (UTC) and time in this format `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}T{HH}:{MM}:{SS}.{mmm}Z`.
- **updatedAt:** update date (UTC) in this format `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}T{HH}:{MM}:{SS}.{mmm}Z`.
- **publishedAt:** most recent publication date (UTC) in this format `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}T{HH}:{MM}:{SS}.{mmm}Z`.
- **firstPublishedAt:** first publication date (UTC) in this format `{YYYY}-{MM}-{DD}T{HH}:{MM}:{SS}.{mmm}Z`.

> - **contentType:** content type (e.g., tutorial, track, updates).

Author: Done!

- **productTeam:** Name of the module to which the article is related.
- **author:** Technical writer identification.
- **slugEN:** Article reference slug in the English version. This field must always be filled in with the same value (slug in EN), even in PT and ES version files.
- **locale:** Article language.
- **legacySlug:** Slug identification.
- **hidden**: Identifies whether the article should remain hidden and be accessed only through its link.

In addition to the standard fields for all articles, check the specific fields for each type of article below:

##### Announcements fields

- **announcementImageID:** Announcement card image identification.
- **announcementSynopsisEN:** Announcement Synopsis information. The name of this parameter varies according to the language of the article, for the Portuguese version it must be used `announcementSynopsisPT`, and for the Spanish version use `announcementSynopsisES`.

##### Know issue fields

- **tag**: Name of the module to which the know issue is related.

> - **kiStatus**: Know issue status.
> - **internalReference**: Know issue internal reference identification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **kiStatus**: Known issue status.
- **internalReference**: Known issue internal reference identification.
```

##### Track fields

- **trackId**: Track article identification.
- **trackSlugEN**: Track slug identification.

##### Troubleshooting fields

- **troubleshootingtags**: Troubleshooting tag information.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Updating navigation sidebar

> The [help-portal-content](https://github.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content) repository just stores our documentation, it is not yet automatically synched to be rendered in the Help Center Portal. For now, when a new content is added to it, it is just included in the desired folder.
> 
> For it to appear in the Help Center Portal in the sidebar navigation, you need to create a pull request in the [helpcenter](https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter) repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For an article to appear in the Help Center sidebar, you need to create a pull request in the [helpcenter](https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter) repository.
```

> The portal's navigation comes from the navigation [file](https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter/blob/main/public/navigation.json). It is a json object listing the navigation and hierarchy of all contents in Help Center Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The portal's navigation comes from the [navigation.json file](https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter/blob/main/public/navigation.json). It is a json object listing the navigation and hierarchy of all content in Help Center.
```

                              "pt": "Como criar um plano de assinatura"
                           },
                           "slug": {
                              "en": "creating-a-subscription-plan",
                              "es": "como-crear-un-plan-de-suscripcion",
                              "pt": "como-criar-um-plano-de-assinatura"
                           },
                           "origin": "",
                           "type": "markdown",
                           "children": []
                        }
                     ]
                  },
...
}
```

Follow the steps below to add new content in the navigation sidebar:

1. Open a branch in the [helpcenter](https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter) repository.

   > ⚠️ **Before you start adding commits, read the [helpcenter repository's readme](https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter/blob/main/README.md) file!** Commits must be done in a certain format for your PR to be approved.

2. In the [navigation.json](https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter/blob/main/public/navigation.json) file, locate where you want the new reference for the article to appear.

> 3. Copy and paste the structure below into **navigation.json**, replacing the names of the articles (three versions) within the `name` object, and the respective slugs in the `slug` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Copy and paste the structure below into **navigation.json**, replacing the names of the articles (one version per locale) within the `name` object, and the respective slugs in the `slug` object.
```

   ```jsx
      {
         "name": {
            "en": "Creating a subscription plan",
            "es": "Cómo crear un plan de suscripción",
            "pt": "Como criar um plano de assinatura"
         },
            "slug": {
               "en": "creating-a-subscription-plan",
               "es": "como-crear-un-plan-de-suscripcion",
               "pt": "como-criar-um-plano-de-assinatura"
         },
            "origin": "",
            "type": "markdown",
            "children": []
      }
   ```
4. Open a PR on GitHub.

>    > ℹ️ By opening a PR, a bot will present a preview for you to test the navigation. With each commit, the preview will be updated.

Reviewer: Navigation preview does not work with the bot. On Dev Portal it must be done by manually pasting the navigation.json file content here https://developers.vtex.com/editor/sidebar. Maybe we could recommend tech writers to use that for now, but create a similar tool for Help Center specifically in the future.

5. Test your navigation through the preview.

> 6. Send the PR link in the `#helpcenter-portal-pr` Slack channel to be approved.

Reviewer: Check which Slack channel we are going to use

Author: At this time, we will still be maintaining the same channel `#dev-portal-pr`.

7. Once PR is approved, apply the merge to update the navigation sidebar.

>     > ℹ️ For it to appear in the Help Center Portal, our Tech Writing team leaders must run the portal's build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > ℹ️ For it to appear in the Help Center, Education & Documentation team leaders must run the portal's build.
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Updating a published article

To update the content of an article that is already published on the Help Center Portal, follow the steps below:

1. Open a branch in the [help-portal-content](https://github.com/vtexdocs/help-center-content) repository.
2. Access and update the **PT version** of the desired file in the repository.

> 3. Access and update the files in the EN and ES versions with the same information (in Portuguese) inserted in the PT file.

Reviewer: how about the localization flow for updates? why would you edit en and es directly before step 4 (localization)?

Author: We will not describe the internal flow of Localization here.
However, once the content of the PT version is added to the EN and ES versions (Step 3), Localization will perform the translation procedure and replace the translated versions (in the same entered location).
We will explain this in more detail to TWs (presentation or video) once the flow is implemented.

3. Submit your PR for review.
4. Register the PR link in the `Document Link` field of the JIRA task and request the translation of the content (EN and ES versions), moving the card status to `Translating`.
6. After the translation is complete, check the content translated by the localization team in the EN and ES version files.
7. Approve the PR and apply the merge to publish the article.

### Creating a redirect

1. Open a branch in the [helpcenter](https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter) repository.
    >⚠️ Before you start adding commits, read the repository's readme file. Commits must be done in a certain format for your PR to be approved.

> 2. In the file [netlify.toml](https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter/blob/main/netlify.toml), you will find an array of redirects. Add the one you want to create following this format, replacing `from` and `to` with the desired slugs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the [netlify.toml file](https://github.com/vtexdocs/helpcenter/blob/main/netlify.toml), you will find an array of redirects. Add the one you want to create following this format, replacing `from` and `to` with the desired slugs:
```

    ```
        [[redirects]]
        force = true
        from = "/es/topic/master-data"
        status = 308
        to = "/tutorial/what-is-master-data--4otjBnR27u4WUIciQsmkAw"
    ```

    Make sure you add specific redirects before more global redirects, otherwise they will have no effect. For now, hashlinks (`#`) are not supported in the source slug.
3. Open a PR. Netlify will generate a preview link for you to test the redirect.

> 4. Send the PR in `#helpcenter-portal-pr` Slack channel for approval.

Reviewer: Check the channel

Author: At this time, we will still be maintaining the same channel.

- **announcementImageID:** Announcement card image identification.
- **announcementSynopsisEN:** Announcement Synopsis information. The name of this parameter varies according to the language of the article, for the Portuguese version it must be used `announcementSynopsisPT`, and for the Spanish version use `announcementSynopsisES`.

##### Known issue fields

- **tag**: Name of the module to which the known issue is related.

> - **kiStatus**: Known issue status.

Reviewer: add possible values here

Author: Fixed!

> - **internalReference**: Known issue internal reference identification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **internalReference**: Known issue Zendesk ID.
```

> - **troubleshootingtags**: Troubleshooting tag information.

Reviewer: explain how they should be added, e.g. with `"`? separated by comma? capitalized or not?

Author: Fixed!

### Creating a redirect

> If an article published on the Help Center Portal must be archived and another article will be used in its place, it is necessary to create a redirect to allow the user to access the new content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an article published on Help Center must be archived and another article will be used in its place, it is necessary to create a redirect to allow users to access the new content.
```
